hey what up um something I've had to
think about just lately but I don't know
what we something I thought it but a lot
more I guess when I was a teenager is
the meaning and meaninglessness of human
beauty itself there are certainly some
people who say I am not good-looking
enough to be talking about vegan as my
boy I don't know man you put me in a
lineup with Peter singer you put me next
to um I don't know Noam Chomsky put me
next any of the guys I've disputed with
on this channel uh I think I think human
beauty and fitness is actually pretty
meaningless to these questions and I
think you can you can have a heart
surgeon who's an excellent surgeon but
who is himself ugly and in bad shape and
overweight and is maybe not practicing
you could have a heart surgeon who's a
chain-smoker
but he's the best surgeon for the job
when you're choosing the man to be the
surgeon and so on and that's that's the
simple side of it but look I mean on the
one hand growing up I was an intensely
aware of the extent to which beauty was
in the eye of the beholder not everyone
is as a kid or as an adult some people
struggle with that their whole lives
the idea of objective beauty as opposed
to the subjective experience of beauty
already that reminds me of a whole bunch
of funny stories and anecdotes to tell
but anyway for me personally that was a
difference I notice to myself and other
guys um and of course I met women who
were really emotionally distraught over
exactly that issue social standards of
beauty as opposed to personal
idiosyncratic and other stands of beauty
and then the other hand is the question
of health the objective senses in which
someone can be beautiful or ugly by
factors beyond their control factors
they're born with diseases they catch
malnutrition and so on I've mentioned
several times on this channel that I had
a peculiar experience doing humanitarian
work in northern Laos near the border
with me
our Golden Triangle in villages that
were designated as the poorest villages
in an already poor country and there
were villages that had malnutrition and
especially what is called seasonal
starvation and you know so in those
towns generally people were very lean
but I wasn't even aware of it because I
was there all the time staring but those
people the time you know the overall
malnutrition the overall poor diet
because it wasn't they weren't living in
an absolute calorie deficit what they
chose to eat was was mostly meat and
they definitely did not eat any fruit or
vegetables out of season and while I was
there there were absolutely no fruit in
season and it was very little vegetable
content much of anyone's diet
people were they were eating meat and
and rice they're reading red meat and
white rice including eating pythons and
God I'll always remember the corpse of a
small mountain lion that were cutting up
and you know pigs and cows too but
jungle meat anyway um so in many ways
that no graciously unhealthy diet
I remember them eating deep fried
potatoes at one point to a potato
growing in the middle of the jungle
tastes much different from potato
growing on a farm when they were
potatoes they dug up from the forest as
opposed to farm potatoes uh when I made
the transition from being in that part
of Laos to being in China right next
door I remember it seemed to me that
everyone was beautiful all of a sudden
and I recognized that what I was
responding to was the transition between
an environment where everyone was
malnourished and you know a place where
fundamentally people had access to
nutrition including fruits and
vegetables including vitamin pills they
wanted them running water electricity
that part of China is also not rich
that's considered one of the poorest
parts of China
but you know everyone there had shoes
and almost everyone was living in a
house made at a concrete war as you know
in Laos where I just been people were
living in a hut made out of bamboo and
people really were too poor to have
shoes and to pour tea properly in
someone but you know as a kid to in
Toronto Toronto I live basically
downtown Toronto what everyone said
wasn't in the suburbs we had every
ethnic group living close to there
almost every I mean you know it's not
possible to have every single ethical
but most of the ethnic groups from all
around the world we're living together
in one place so no growing up for me
nobody really seemed exotic everyone
seemed familiar you know in terms of all
the different ethnicities and I grew up
with a lot of exposure to the
entertainment industry people aspiring
to become actors and actresses people
going to auditions including you know
ugly people because ugly people get work
as models and actors you know as a
character actors would have you was a
guy who was the the security guard at my
high school
not every high school has a security
guard but you know if a fist fight broke
up or something he that was his job was
to try to calm people down and I think I
think they had him mopped the floor when
there was nothing to do but that guy I
remember he he got movie roles both as a
gangster and as a cop it was not a good
looking guy he he was of mixed African
canadian heritage and from the east
coast of Canada we have a really old
population of black people from the east
coast of Canada I've been there for
hundreds of hundreds years and anyway he
could get cast as black white or
Hispanic and he went to all these
auditions you don't say
Hispanic gangster needed or you know and
he got you got roles and you know I mean
you meet young women I just grew up
never having the feeling that that
good-looking women were scarce or
good-looking men for that matter and on
the other hand I never had the illusion
that good-looking people were the most
successful people you could meet people
who are absolutely gorgeous but who
never got a break as an actor or an
actress and you could meet people who
were really kind of playing or kind of
ugly who were tremendously successful in
the theater or in television or in
movies and all the funny contradictions
in between some people were very
talented but bad looking some people
were good-looking enough you know it's
funny but I mean I ended up just being
very comfortable with the arbitrary
nature of beauty both as socially
constructed and just as personally
perceived obviously one guy thinks you
know very fat women are attractive and
other guy likes thin women somebody else
like something in between and all the
funny paradoxes surrounding these things
and it's said in making a video I made
just now just just five minutes ago I
filmed this video about freelee and
durianrider
what's sad to me is that I see in the
vegan community this this atavistic
clinging for beauty to be attached to
virtue the idea that beautiful people
are the virtuous people that the leaders
are the tall and the strong and the
brawny and the beautiful uh um you know
the man with the biggest muscles can
give me the best advice and so on it's
such a fundamental delusion or earlier
this semester a couple of a couple of
weeks ago I was doing reading about the
politics of Tonga remote islands in
South Pacific like Tonga and in their
literature you know up till quite
recently they not only had the the
delusion the very deep cultural belief
that beautiful people were more
intelligent they really believed that if
you were a handsome man you were smarter
than ugly men they really believed that
in their culture but but also that being
beautiful and smart simply meant that
you were one of the gods and have a
unique religious and political
vocabulary that they're community
leaders regarded as gods and so on
and you know within Europe when you read
some of the ancient stuff about Hercules
and all the rest of it you know we have
our own we have our own peculiar
delusions about strength and beauty
making you a great leader or making you
a good person and you know it doesn't
make you good or bad it doesn't make you
smart or stupid it doesn't make you
right or wrong because you know being
wrong is something that happens to human
beings you can be brilliant and
beautiful and athletic and have the best
of intentions and have no bad intentions
and you can still be wrong
you know I say so oft on this channel
that I sympathize but I really can
sympathize with sort of the series of
delusions people get into nutritionally
culturally and otherwise but I mean look
if I don't talk about this stuff
who's going to I for me one of the
craziest complaints about this channel
is and people say well even if what
you're saying is true why are you saying
it why aren't you just uncritically
praising your fellow your fellow vegans
well i how would that sound I'm friends
with the vegan brunette shadow to the
vegan brunette she lives the same city
here in Canada relevant if I made a
video saying hey good work I'm so glad
you lost weight I made a video saying
hey you're good-looking you're
attractive thumbs up I think it would
sound kind of vaguely offensive I think
a lot of people will respond I don't
think she'd be offensive but people
respond saying why are you
congratulating her on losing weight like
you know how is that your job that's
ridiculous and you know on the other
hand yeah um it is my job and it's
everyone's job to scrutinize political
claims that don't quite make sense to
ask these questions of how can I make a
positive difference socially politically
and otherwise in the world and I mean
health and beauty and so on it's really
not what I want to talk about on this
channel at all but sometimes these
things get so
far off the rails get so absurd that
yeah I've ended up making some of these
comments and reflections hey every video
I've made on that topic I've ended by
hoping it was the last one